q. What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

a. A .git folder is created, this is where the metadata is 
stored by git so it can keep tracking files. If you dont create 
this then git will not be tracking the repository.

q. How is the staging area different from the working directory 
and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

a. The staging area is used so that certain files in a 
repository can be tracked and commited. Commit only takes a 
snapshot of files in the staging area. This gives more control 
over which files are commited each time, allowing the user to 
choose the most logical course of action.

q. How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one 
commit per logical change?

a. You only need add the file(s) with the changes you want to 
commit to the staging area, alloewing you to determine which 
changed files corresponf to the one logical change.

q. What are some situations when branches would be helpful in 
keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

a. when experimenting with a new feature, or creating a new 
version of a programme it can be beneficial to swtich to a 
new branch rather than working with the master branch. This 
means that it is easy enough to keep the working version safely 
as the master, and experiment in a new branch with quite 
large-scale changes.

Mike Wales: New branch of work. Keep things organised. The 
master one has production quality. Development branch for active 
work. Experimental branch or unique feature work - fully 
expected to break. Also gives ability to switch and leave a 
branch.

a. cont. Also helpful for collaborative work, each person 
working on the code would make their own branch.

q. How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

a. While git log can be used to show the history of all
specified branches using this command:
(git log --graph --oneline <branch> <branch <branch>)
It is helpful to have a diagram for yourself to visualise 
exactly where each branch has come off from the master.
Good way to keep on top of the history of your work. Worst case 
scenario of not doing this is if detached HEAD changes are 
commited and then changes are lost (as these will not show up on 
git log without existing in a branch)

q. What is the resul of merging two branches together?
Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

a. The result is that the changes made in each of the branches 
are combined in one commit, bringing experimental or extra 
developments back into the master branch (in most cases). It has 
two parents and so has arrows pointing back to two branches,but 
in fact has brought the separate branches into one branch (
usually master).

q. What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. 
always doing merges manually?

a. The automatic merging is quick and simple, however if 
git guessed when conflicts arose, you may end up losing features 
you did not want to.
Manual merging allows you to choose what makes the cut for 
the commit, so no surprises!